# ASY-SONATA

This is the MATLAB code for simulating ASY-SONATA.  The simulation consists of three problems and includes comparison with state of arts that can be implemented in the partial asynchronous model [1] and over directed graphs.  We elaborate below some basic setups:

### asynchronous model:
> + *Activation lists* are generated by concatenating *random rounds*.  A random round is either a random shuffle of all agents or is generated in the following way: we first sample its length uniformly from the interval $[Num_Nodes, time_window]$, with some specified $time_window$;  within a  round, we first have each agent appearing exactly once and then sample agents uniformly for the remaining spots;  finally a random shuffle of the agents order is performed on each round.
> + Each transmitted message  has  (integer) *traveling time* which is sampled uniformly from the interval $[0, D^{\text{tv}}]$, with some specified $D^{\text{tv}}$.

Agents wake up according to an activation list.  An agent will send out information to all its out-neighbors immediately after it finishes its own local update.  Suppose $T_{ij}^k$ is the traveling time of a packet sent from agent $j$ at the virtual global iteration $k$.  The packet will not be available to $i$ until the virtual global iteration $k+T_{ij}^k.$  Every agent always uses the most recently generated information from its in-neighbors out of those available.  

### directed graphs:
> We first generate a directed cycle to guarantee strong connectivity.  Then we randomly add another $Num_outneighbor-1$ out-neighbors for each node with user-specified $Num_outneighbor$.  One row-stochastic weight matrix and one column-stochastic weight matrix are generated using uniform weights.  

### data:
> We described in our paper the process of data generation for each problem.  Please check [ASY-SONATA](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.10359.pdf).



Each folder contains codes for the specific problem.  Inside each folder, the main function is validate.m.  Please contact me via _tian110@purdue.edu_ for any question.  Enjoy!


## Reference:
[1] Bertsekas, Dimitri P., and John N. Tsitsiklis. Parallel and distributed computation: numerical methods. Vol. 23. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice hall, 1989.
